---
layout: post
title: "Visualizing Power Grids with D3"
---

# Visualizing Power Grids with D3

<div id="d3"></div>

The graph visualization at right is based on data from [MATPOWER][8]. I followed [this post][1] to get it working on this site (see the page source).

Sometimes you need to learn five things to do one thing. I wanted to visualize power grids with D3. I had to learn:

* D3 itself. I worked through the first eight chapters of [Scott Murray's book][2].
* JavaScript. [D3 is JavaScript][6], of course, so you can't really separate the two. I learned from chapter 3 of Murray's book and played around with the console in Chrome's developer tools. JavaScript also has commonalities with Visual Basic for Applications and Julia in, and I have a good years' experience with each. The worst JavaScript I had to work through was for [Jupyter/Julia/D3 integration][3]; it wasn't too bad.
* HTML. Where do scripts go? In what order does the browser do things? I don't need to know everything about HTML, so I'm just learning what's necessary as I go.
* CSS. One uses CSS selectors to modify [SVG attributes][4], so got re-acquainted with CSS.
* JSON. D3 and Julia seem equally happy with CSV and JSON, but I went with JSON for this project to learn something new. I wrote Julia code to build a `Dict` containing network information, then used [JSON.jl][5] to convert it to JSON. The beauty of D3 is that visualization structure and markup are independent of data, so I can simply pass different JSON objects to visualize different networks. 

I am currently working on a Julia interface to the D3 force layout. The goal is to be able to specify a property and corresponding data, and have D3 update the appropriate graph properties. Something like:

```julia
g = d3graph()
d3update(g, "nodes", [0;1;2])
d3update(g, "node_colors", ["blue";"blue";"red"]
d3update(g, "links", [(0,1);(0,2)])
d3update(g, "link_labels", ["first link"; "second link"])
```

My most immediate application for this tool is visualization of [injection shift factors][7] and transmission line temperatures. Hopefully my code remains flexible enough to see a variety of additional applications.

<style type="text/css">
.node {
    stroke: #fff;
    stroke-width: 1.5px;
}
.link {
    stroke: #999;
    stroke-opacity: 0.6;
}
div#d3 {
    float: right;
    margin-right: 1%;
    margin-bottom: 1em;
    margin-left: 0.5em;
}
svg {
    border-style: solid;
    border-width: 1px;
}
</style>
<script type="text/javascript" src="{{ site.baseurl }}public/js/d3.js"></script>

<script type="text/javascript">
//Width and height
var width = 200,
    height = 200

var color = d3.scale.category20();

var force = d3.layout.force()
    .charge(-120)
    .linkDistance(30)
    .size([width, height]);

var svg = d3.select("div#d3")
    .append("svg")
    .attr("width", width)
    .attr("height", height)

d3.json("/data/case14.json", function(error, graph) {
    if (error) throw error;

    force
        .nodes(graph.nodes)
        .links(graph.links)
        .start();
    
    var link = svg.selectAll(".link")
        .data(graph.links)
        .enter()
        .append("line")
        .attr("class", "link");

    var node = svg.selectAll(".node")
        .data(graph.nodes)
        .enter()
        .append("circle")
        .attr("class", "node")
        .attr("r", 7)
        .style("fill", function(d) { return color(d.type); })
        .call(force.drag);

    node.append("title")
        .text(function(d) { return d.name; });

    force.on("tick", function() {
        link.attr({
            x1: function(d) { return d.source.x; },
            y1: function(d) { return d.source.y; },
            x2: function(d) { return d.target.x; },
            y2: function(d) { return d.target.y; }
        });

        node.attr({
            cx: function(d) { return d.x; },
            cy: function(d) { return d.y; }
        });
    });
});
</script>

## Update, March 21
I've begun binding research results to my graph visualizations. [This one][9] compares injection shift factors with the output of an algorithm I have been working on.

[1]: http://www.nicksuch.com/2014/03/26/d3-sample/
[2]: http://chimera.labs.oreilly.com/books/1230000000345
[3]: https://github.com/SOASTA/julia-d3-tutorial/blob/master/julia/06%20-%20Pass%20Data%20to%20IFrame.ipynb
[4]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/SVG/Attribute
[5]: https://github.com/JuliaLang/JSON.jl
[6]: https://github.com/mbostock/d3
[7]: {{ site.baseurl }}2015/10/28/injection-shift-factors/
[8]: http://www.pserc.cornell.edu/matpower/docs/ref/matpower5.0/case14.html
[9]: http://bl.ocks.org/kersulis/6297ce022f0b9b4806fa
