It is Sunday morning at the time of this writing, and I am a follower of Christ. If personal relationships suffer in today's digital culture, relationships with God suffer even more. The Pomodoro technique is poorly suited to spending time with God; how can I put a timer on meditation? Were I to apply the Pomodoro technique to my relationship with my girlfriend, I would quickly drive her crazy. But if I do not apply any willpower, I am distracted in minutes. Maybe there is a way to modify the Pomodoro technique to turn down the intensity while keeping the focus.

The Pomodoro technique says to work in twenty-five minute sprints with five minutes between them. The five minutes' flexibility makes all the difference. If someone interrupts me with a quick question or I need to look something up, I just use one of the minutes a bit early. Though my concentration may have been broken, I am still on track. This distributed flexibility has played an important role in my decision to continue using the technique. What if I placed two Pomodoros together and distributed ten minutes of slack? This longer time period requires no timer; I need only glance at the clock. The ten minutes of spare time may not make a practical difference, but they do help relieve the mental pressure of a ticking clock. When I give two Pomodoros to God, I am simply saying that I will spend an hour with Him, an hour of focus free from pressure.

When I think back to my life before gadgets and computers, that last sentence sounds silly. Giving an hour of focus to God was so easy I took it for granted. Now I put a fancy name like "double Pomodoro" on it so my mind recognizes its importance. I do hope that my new technique ultimately returns my time with God to the way it was years ago.

Typing away with Sublime Text's "distraction free mode", I have reached the 1,200 word mark in about an hour. If I write 1,200 words each morning, I will become a better writer and more relaxed, introspective person. This will be good for me, a great reason to get up early. My goal for this week is to write at least 750 words a day before going to work. This will require motivation, and you know what would really motivate me? Having a personal website to display those 750 words. I sense an afternoon project coming on...