Encouragement is a critical part of the Christian life. Though each of us has a different idea of the ideal form of encouragement, we all need it at times.

Encouragement takes many forms; in this post I will advocate one that I feel is often overlooked. In this age of boundless information, it is easy to find "encouraging" words. You can subscribe to a verse-a-day feed or follow a friend whose posts tend to be thoughtful and optimistic. I argue that this is a lesser form of encouragement whose value is dwarfed by what I will call "load-bearing support". To see what I mean, take a look at the following definition of encouragement:

	encouragement: the action of giving someone support, confidence, or hope.

This definition is as broad as you want it to be, depending on how you define support, confidence, and hope. Technically, any optimistic phrase may be considered encouraging, but I contend that the encouragement we need when we are really low is based on a stronger definition.
Consider the visual connotation of support. We use support to stay things that would otherwise collapse. Support must be neither fleeting nor insufficient; when an engineer designs a bridge, she builds excessive support into its very foundations. This concept transcends the trivial definition, which might say that support is anything that helps hold something up. If I stand beneath a bridge and push up with all my might, I still cannot say that I am supporting it. It is the steel girders and catenaries that bear the load; my effort, though real, is negligible. Thus, I draw a distinction between _incidental_ support and _load-bearing_ support. It is the latter kind that we must strive for if we wish to channel God's love into others. His love is always load-bearing.

My grandfather passed away last year. It was a difficult time for the family; he was a great man, a cornerstone everyone could count on. One of my aunts had a particularly difficult time coping with his passing. One night a few weeks after the funeral, she called me. "It sure is hard living without Grandpa, isn't it?," she said. I agreed. She continued talking for fifteen minutes or so, and I mostly listened. This woman had seen the loss of her beloved father, an experience I could not identify with. I did not know what to say, so I said little. The other day I found out that she considered taking her life that night, and the call she made to me helped her out of that terrible low place. I thank God for using me to help my aunt in her time of need, but in hindsight I believe I missed an opportunity to bear more of her load; my lack of empathy hindered my ability to support my aunt.

Another anecdote comes to mind. I have been rock climbing and bouldering with a small group of acquaintances from work. One of them seemed brusque to me; he was never outright mean, but he was frequently short with me for no apparent reason. Just as I was on the verge of deciding I dislike this man, I discovered in a conversation with him that he had an awful, self-destructive father. A short time later, I was looking for his website (he said it contained some helpful Python code) and found out that he was married only two years ago. Further investigation told me that he and his wife are either separated or divorced. He never mentioned a significant other, and now I know why. The last thing this man needs is my dislike. He needs support. He needs encouragement. I may never know him well enough to provide that support, but I do know him well enough to empathize. He has experienced things I can only imagine. I must show him love and encouragement any way I can.

My work acquaintance is not the only person who needs load-bearing support. Everyone has needed it at some point and will likely need it again. My aunt has been my aunt for decades; I have had many opportunities to know her and empathize with her. I missed far too many of those opportunities, and I regret it. I challenge you to redefine your concept of support and sharpen your definition of encouragement. We don't need Hallmark cards. We need the endless love of God.