Can productivity be sought for its own sake? Under what conditions are humans most productive? Under what conditions am _I_ most productive? Should I be alone or in a work environment? Should I work with ambient noise or silence, or perhaps with music playing in my earbuds? What kind of music is best for productivity? Is my goal to be able to sit in front of a computer for eight hours a day cranking out solid text? or should I aim for the ability to write code for hours on end? Does my reading speed indicate my productivity? Does my typing speed hint at my productivity? How can my advisor and mentor produce one paper after the next without the sophisticated tools that I know exist? Is productivity found in shortcuts or in [AIS][2]? Am I overthinking this whole thing? How do truly productive people get their work done?

I know from reading [The Setup][1] that productive people do not always have multiple big monitors; actually, many of them use a small laptop with no externals. So many of these things are case-specific, but if I were to avoid generalization I would need to stop writing right now, so let's talk generalities. Productive people in areas related to mine use text editors that they are intimately familiar with. They use every computer shortcut they can find. They do not always have perfect grammar or spelling; some of their sentences are run-ons. A few of them subscribe to GTD, but most do not credit their productivity to any particular scheme. Most productive people are confident, eager to contribute to projects and start new ones. Many of them are Mac people, but certainly not all of them. A few lead eccentric lives in remote places. Some list a dozen hardware and software must-haves; others list two or three. It is perhaps fallacious to assume that all (or even a majority) of people interviewed by The Setup are productive individuals, but judging by their titles and passion, I bet Setup interviewees are more productive than the average bear. I want to understand them. The variety of tools used and varying degrees of recommendation would make it difficult to make a table out of The Setup. You really need to read the interviews.

Random productivity-related thought: sometimes it is better to go back to paper. Today I have been trying to write a paper but have not made it very far. Oranization is part of the problem. I cannot seem to get organized while staring at the screen. I would be better served by getting organized on paper.

Okay, I just finished making an outline of the paper. That took about five minutes. Easy--no cognitive burden. Now it's time to get psyched, because this will not be any ordinary paper. No, this is going to be written like a textbook. My advisor trusts me to write a textbook-quality report of my summer work and of work that has not even been completed yet. My mentor trusts me to coordinate with everyone else on the team to bring this thing together. My other mentor trusts me to have working, nice-looking code ready to demo at the January power school classes. If all goes well, I will be called upon to teach the twenty students in those classes about instanton analysis and power system model approximations. I may not be an expert in these areas yet, but I will be.

Incidentally, I do not believe productivity can be sought for its own sake. I think it is something that arises naturally from passion and intelligence. A well-kept mind working on problems it finds interesting will seek the best way, and when the time comes to do menial tasks in support of the primary objective, the well-kept mind finds the most efficient way. [This Lifehacker article][3] seems a reasonable productivity manifesto to me. [Here][4] is another one.

So it's not about how much you get done, but about how meaningful those tasks are to you. If you understand why you are doing something and are convinced that your work is important, you can pick and choose your favorite productivity tricks and they will likely work.

The next trick I want to experiment with is focus. I want to have at least five hours of focus each day. For these hours, I will listen only to classical music, and I will open only the few windows and browser tabs that are relevant for the task at hand. To properly focus, I will continue to use the Pomodoro technique, but I will be more thoughtful about the "purpose" tag I place on each Pomodoro: is the task I am working on meaningful, or should I just go home before I waste hours doing nothing?


[1]: http://usesthis.com/ 
[2]: http://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=AIS
[3]: http://lifehacker.com/finding-balance-between-high-productivity-and-burnout-1609708030
[4]: http://lifehacker.com/10-lessons-i-learned-from-a-year-of-productivity-experi-1584800618